[FFL-2449] Add server-side flag evaluation metrics documentation (#37257)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/feature_flags/concepts/flag_graphs.md

---

> title: Feature Flag Graphs

Author: See rendered page: https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/vickie/FFL-2449-server-flag-eval-metrics-docs/feature_flags/concepts/flag_graphs/

Reviewer: @vjfridge For future docs PRs, you could omit comments like this. They make the PR history noisy, and CI automatically adds [links to all the affected pages](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/37257#issuecomment-4622907083) to the PR.

Author: Aha! Thanks!!

description: Understand the graphs on the feature flags list and details pages and how to use them to monitor your rollout.
further_reading:
- link: "/feature_flags/server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Server-Side Feature Flags"
- link: "/feature_flags/client/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Client-Side Feature Flags"
- link: "/dashboards/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dashboards"
---

## Overview

Datadog Feature Flags provides graphs at two levels: the flags list page gives a snapshot of all your flags at a glance, and the flag details page shows in-depth graphs for a single flag.

## Flags list page

> The flags list page shows a summary row for each flag, including total evaluation count and mini graph that let you assess activity across your flag inventory without opening each flag individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each summary row shows a total evaluation count and a mini graph, so you can assess activity across your flag inventory without opening each flag.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

{{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/flag_list.png" alt="Feature flags list page showing evaluation counts and sparklines per flag" style="width:100%;" >}}

Each row shows:

- **Evaluation count**: total number of client and server evaluations in the past hour
- **Mini graph**: individual client and server evaluations in the past hour, grouped by variant

> - **Variants**: the variant colors are the key for the mini graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Evaluation count**: Total number of client and server evaluations in the past hour
- **Mini graph**: Individual client and server evaluations in the past hour, grouped by variant
- **Variants**: The variant colors are the key for the mini graph
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

## Flag details page

> The flag details page includes observability insights to help you quickly identify how a single flag is performing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flag details page includes observability insights to help you identify how a single flag is performing.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied — removed "quickly" in 1666df7

### Targeting rule evaluation counts

> Shows the total client and server evaluations that fell through to each targeting rule in the given `Real-time metric overview` time range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows the total client and server evaluations that fell through to each targeting rule in the given **Real-time metric overview** time range.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

{{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/targeting_rule_distribution.png" alt="Targeting rule evaluation count" style="width:100%;" >}}

> Use this count to confirm that targeting rules are working as expected and to see how traffic is distributed across targeting rules in a given environment, including % of total traffic in the time range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this count to confirm that targeting rules are working as expected and to see how traffic is distributed across targeting rules in a given environment, including the percentage of total traffic in the time range.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

> ### Client + Server evaluations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Client and server evaluations
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied — changed to "Client and server evaluations" in 1666df7

{{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/evaluations.png" alt="Client + Server evaluations graph split by variant" style="width:100%;" >}}

Client SDK evaluations have two views, each grouped by variant:

- **Unique**: count of unique users or entities that evaluated each variant (deduplicated by targeting key)

> - **Total**: count of all evaluations by variant, including repeated evaluations of the same targeting key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unique**: Count of unique users or entities that evaluated each variant (deduplicated by targeting key)
- **Total**: Count of all evaluations by variant, including repeated evaluations of the same targeting key
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

> 

Reviewer 2: Assuming 2 blank lines was unintentional

```suggestion

```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied — removed extra blank line in 1666df7

> Server SDK evaluations show count of all evaluations by variant. Requires flag evaluation metrics to be enabled. See [Set Up Server-Side Flag Evaluation Metrics][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server SDK evaluations show a count of all evaluations by variant. This requires flag evaluation metrics to be enabled. See [Set Up Server-Side Flag Evaluation Metrics][1].
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied in 1666df7

### Errors and latency

{{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/errors_latency.png" alt="Error and latency graphs" style="width:100%;" >}}

> Error rate and latency graphs are available for client evaluations. Server evaluation support is coming soon.

Reviewer: Avoid forward-looking promises like "coming soon" — docs should be evergreen and cover the product's current state, not predict a future possible version. Also for AI readability, unsupported features read more clearly with explicit negation than with soft language. You could also omit the second sentence if you only want to focus on supported features.

```suggestion
Error rate and latency graphs are available for client evaluations. They are not available for server evaluations.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied — replaced with "They are not available for server evaluations." in 1666df7

## Export to a dashboard

{{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/dashboard_export.png" alt="Export graph to a dashboard" style="width:100%;" >}}

> Choose **Export to Dashboard** to add it to a Datadog dashboard. From there, you can slice and dice the data for further insights.

Reviewer: Avoid jargon like "slice and dice." Also the screenshot shows the label as "Save to dashboard":

```suggestion
Choose **Save to dashboard** to add a graph it to a Datadog dashboard. From there, you can filter and group the data for further insights.
```

Author: [🤖 claude] Applied — replaced "slice and dice" with "filter and group"; updated button label to "Save to dashboard" in 1666df7

---
title: Feature Flag Graphs
description: Understand the graphs on the feature flags list and details pages and how to use them to monitor your rollout.
further_reading:
- link: "/feature_flags/server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Server-Side Feature Flags"
- link: "/feature_flags/client/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Client-Side Feature Flags"
- link: "/dashboards/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Dashboards"
---

## Overview

Datadog Feature Flags provides graphs at two levels: the flags list page gives a snapshot of all your flags at a glance, and the flag details page shows in-depth graphs for a single flag.

## Flags list page

The flags list page shows a summary row for each flag, including evaluation sparklines and counts that let you assess activity across your flag inventory without opening each flag individually.

> {{< img src="feature_flags/flag_graphs/flags_list.png" alt="Feature flags list page showing evaluation counts and sparklines per flag" style="width:100%;" >}}

Author: Added!
